Okay, let me share my screen here. Okay,
go to the first
slide. Uh, want to get this thing
together.
Okay.
Um, I think uh I might I should be
unmuted, right? Yep, you're unmuted and
everything looks good on our end. Uh,
okay. Let me uh go back here.
Um, let me get rid of that thing. All
right, great. Uh well, thanks uh thanks
for the introduction. Uh it's nice to be
here uh today to give you uh an overview
of our research on cancer as a metabolic
disease and uh the information on this
will be will have major implications for
how we approach and manage uh the
disease. So let me
um trying to move this thing forward
here.
Uh, I'm not
sure. Uh,
you may you may have to um, so try um
ending your slideshow and share it again
one more time. Uh, let's see. Share it
again.
No, no, exit exit um your slideshow. So,
right click on on your
slideshow and hit and show or Okay. Oh,
all right. Let me Oh, I see. Yeah.
Okay. And then start it one more time.
Okay. Let's see here if it works. I
wasn't able to move forward. Okay.
Share. Okay. Try try moving forward now.
All
right. Oh, still still a little uh not
able to move forward here. Let's see.
Because it was moving forward just a
minute ago. I don't know. Oh, here we
go. All right. I I have to hit the but
the button on the bottom. Okay. Okay, it
should be fine. Yeah, I I'll hit the
button, not the one on my computer, uh
my my my keypad here. All right. So, so
anyway, I mean, getting back, uh I gave
you the title and now um uh this this
first or this next slide here,
uh shows the data. Now, I I collect this
data from this is all published
information from the American Cancer
Society. Every year uh American Cancer
Society comes out with their so-called
statistics, cancer statistics and anyone
can uh go back and um and get these. Dr.
Seagull uh is the most recent person
cataloging the number of cases and
deaths per year. Um and then to figure
out deaths per day, you simply divide
deaths per year by 365 and you have an
estimate of um how many people are dying
each day from cancer. So the these are
the numbers from 2013 to
2021. Um and you can see there's a 4
point uh well 12% increase in new cases,
but also about a 4.6% 6% increase in
deaths per day and and deaths per uh
year which is parallel to the
approximate increase in the population
US population size during these same
over the same period. So, so the bottom
line here is that we're not making any
major drop. Um, you know, it's it's
stagnating. Uh, you know, you hear about
all this stuff and I'll talk about some
of the stuff that we hear about on TV
and all these kinds of things. All the
great progress that we are making in
keeping people alive longer, happier,
and all this kind of stuff you hear
advertised on on television. But when
you look at at the uh statistics um we
don't see that okay we don't see major
drops it's just a continual gradual
increase year in and year out. So
um uh and and this is a paper that was
published a couple of years ago uh that
evaluated all the drugs that have been
FDA approved 92 different drugs for
cancer that have been approved from 2000
to 2016.
Um and you know it's very interesting uh
these novel cancer therapies they are
associated with uh substantial tumor
responses but the median overall
survival uh was increased by only about
2.4 months. This is very interesting. So
in other words when you take these drugs
it looks like your tumor is responding
but your overall survival is not that
greatly increased. And many of these
drugs are extremely expensive. And um
not only are they associated with um
physical toxicities, but they can also
be associated with uh financial toxicity
and trying to pay for them. And you
wouldn't mind paying the money if if you
could get a substantial impact in
quality of life and overall survival,
but u that's not the case. So the
question we ask ourselves is why are we
not making the kind of progress in
managing cancer that we should be making
considering the enormous monies that
have been devoted to this disease
through not only federal research
funding but also through all of these
private
foundations. So uh we'll we'll address
that. Um you know and and here's here's
a paper that was published some years
ago couple of years ago. uh
hyperprogressive disease in patients
with advanced non small cell cancer
treated with
PD1PDL-1 inhibitors. The the names of
these you hear on TV. This is your updo
and Katruda. Uh and these are the names
of the of the PD1 PD1 and PDL1 drugs.
Now it's interesting
um there are some and you can see the
poor overall survival that you have here
for uh lung cancer. You know you're up
to 20 for two years is the most. You can
see the patients start 138 um 138
patients and you can see how fast they
drop off. Um now the uh standard of care
the toxic drugs that they use um you
know you don't get a really good
long-term survival for for lung cancer
but with um uh optivo and catruda you
you can get some patients can in fact do
do well. um the majority of PA of
patients don't show any any therapeutic
benefit but what's most disturbing is
that there is a about 15 to 16% of the
patients treated with these drugs
actually die much faster. Um it's called
hyperprogressive disease and this is
seen now more and more papers are coming
out not only for lung cancer but for for
a variety of different cancers. the
treatments themselves accelerate the
speed with which the patients die and
you don't often don't hear that when it
when these drugs are are are discussed
but anyway this there's a number of this
is a paper you can read it all the
references are here from jamama oncology
um that discuss this and there's many
many more papers that discuss this
concept of hyperp progressive disease
right so so um now what's the problem
Why are we not making any progress major
progress in cancer management? And
that's because we have misunderstood the
nature of of what cancer actually is. So
this paper we just recently published
with my colleague Dr. Christos
Chinopoulos from Seml Weiss University
in Hungary, world expert on uh
mitochondria. Can the mitochondrial
metabolic theory explain better the
origin and management of cancer than can
the somatic mutation theory? And I'm
going to I'll be discussing these
concepts uh so that you have a clear
idea about both of these of these
theories. So what causes a growth
regulated normal cell to become a growth
disregulated cancer cell? So this uh
cartoon here of a of a cell uh shows you
the organels. This is the nucleus. Uh
this large section here um endopplasmic
reticulum golgi apparat all these
different organels. But the organel the
mitochondrian here uh this is a
cross-section. It's like a spaghetti
network through the cytoplasm. This is
the organel the mitochondrian that's
responsible for the generation of most
of the energy in our cells. uh we
breathe air uh we get what we call
oxidative respiration and the and the
oxygen in the air that we breathe uh
serves as an acceptor of electrons to
generate
ATP uh adenosine triphosphate which is
the gold currency for energy without ATP
nothing in our lives in our brain in our
any of our organs can work without ATP
ATP is life ATP is energy without ATP
nothing can grow. So the ATP in our
cells is largely produced in this
organel, the
mitochondria. Mitochondrial respiratory
damage is the origin of cancer. And I'll
present the evidence for this. So the uh
uh uh what happens this organel and I'll
show you how it can become damaged and
once it becomes damaged, it releases
these reactive radicals that cause the
mutations in the nucleus. So the somatic
DNA mutations and most other
abnormalities seen in cancer cells are
downstream effects of mitochondrial
respiratory damage. So the mutations and
the cancer and I'll show you why cancer
is not a genetic disease. All of these
mutations that people seem to focus on
um are all downstream effects. They're
not the cause, they're the effects. The
cause of cancer is a mitochondrial
disruption of oxidative phosphorilation
respiration. They mutations are effects
not causes. This is this is underlies
the the reason why we're not m making
any major advances in cancer because the
field focuses on mutations. And if you
focus on a downstream effect as as as
your primary attention, you're not going
to make the advances that you should
make. And I'll show you the evidence for
that. If you want to learn how to
implement the ketogenic diet and the
press pulse protocol into your cancer
management, just visit
school.com/toforcancer, the new
community by our research analyst Johnny
Rocker. Within this new community
platform, you can connect with other
patients and learn from their
experiences. You can also just search
through the posts other members have
already made. You will have access to
our classroom section as well, which
provides practical advice and tools for
the best results. These sections cover
all parts of the press pulse protocol
that you should implement. Starting with
the general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Cipher, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen
protocols. So, take a look around at
school.com/ keto for cancer.
So, in order to you have to understand
scientific theories. These theories um
are simply an attempt to explain the
facts of nature. We as a as a species we
examine things, we look at things and
then we try to explain things of nature
in in the context of a theory. So
reality is based on replicated facts
whereas the interpretation of the facts
is based on a credible theory. So if we
go back in history and we can look at
different uh theories to explain the
phenomenon of nature. So the
heliocentric theory that that the
heliocentric theory is where the sun is
the center of the solar system. This
could uh theory could explain better the
movements of the celestial bodies than
could the geocentric theory. The
geocentric theory stated that the uh
earth was the center of the solar
system. So it was capernicus, Galileo
and Kepler that uh identified the
heliocentric theory and most people
accept that today we all know that the
earth revolves around the sun. But for
centuries um Tmi uh uh the scientists of
of of of centuries ago uh said no no the
earth was the center of the of of the
universe. And you you have uh you have
to recognize that Guadano Bruno uh an
Italian uh was burned at the stake for
uh trying to support uh the Capernac
Galileo theory. So you have to realize
that challenging challenging these
theories can can sometimes um be met
with uh severe penalties. The germ
theory of Lewis Pastor could explain
better the origin of contagious diseases
than could the uh miasma or bad air
theory of of Galen. So um uh we now know
germs germs cause contagious diseases.
These could be viruses, bacteria,
whatever. But for many centuries it was
thought to be bad air. Um the uh Darwin
Wallace theory of evolution by natural
selection could explain better the
origin of species than could the theory
of special creation and nothing in
biology makes sense except in the light
of evolution. So the question that I'm
going to address today is can the
mitochondrial metabolic theory explain
better the origin and management of
cancer than can the sematic mutation
theory. So this is what we're going to
be focusing on today. Uh the concept of
cancer is a genetic disease or is cancer
a mitochondrial metabolic
disease. All right. So right now today
in our world um the current dogma is
that cancer is a genetic
disease. Uh this paper by uh Dr. Hannah
and Weineberg is the most highly cited
paper in all of the biological
literature. over 75,000 times. This
paper has been cited in all these
various research uh papers. Cancer cells
carry the ankcoenic and tumor suppressor
mutations that define cancer as a
genetic disease. Um and this concept now
if you go to uh freshman biology in
college uh medical school um this is
what is discussed. Cancer is a genetic
disease. there is no other discussion uh
of alternative um uh theories uh on
cancer and everybody's looking for
cancer mutations and all this kind kind
of things that you read about and hear
about and it's also supported by the
national cancer institute um how cancer
arises this is if you go on to the
national cancer institute uh website uh
web page how cancer arises it says right
here cancer is a genetic disease that it
is caused by changes in genes that
control the way our cells function,
especially how they grow and divide.
Cancer is caused by certain changes to
genes, the basic physical units of
inheritance. Genes are arranged in long
strands in DNA called chromosomes. So
the National Cancer Institute, a branch
of the National Institutes of Health,
clearly says that cancer is a genetic
disease. So obviously if all the medical
schools and all the universities in the
classrooms and the National Cancer
Institute are saying the same thing,
this becomes a dogma. It becomes an
irrefutable truth that no one begins to
question. So this is uh the importance
of what we're we're looking at here. And
then you know the hallmarks of
cancer this was put out by by Hannah
Hannah and Weineberg uh sustaining
proliferative signaling. Okay. Evading
growth suppressors and I'll go into a
little bit more of this. Uh activating
invasion and metastasis. I'll be
speaking about this. Enabling
replicative immortality inducing
angioenesis which is abnormal blood
vessel growth in the tumor in the tumor
tissue and resisting cell death. So u
all of this is controlled by gene
mutations according to the somatic
mutation. And it's also important to
recognize these are random random gene
mutations are controlling all these
hallmarks. And then to solidify the
dogmatic view of the somatic mutation
theory, we present these little uh
figures and
diagrams, a car speeding out of control
because it has genes that uh accelerate
the rate of cell division. And we have
mutations in tumor suppressor genes. In
other words, you cannot stop cell
division out of control. And people, if
you want to know what cancer is, people
say, "What is cancer?" The definition of
cancer is cell division out of control.
Okay? Cell division out of control is
the definition of cancer. According to
the somatic mutation theory, these are
uh uh uh mutations in proto genes or
tumor suppressor genes. This is the
definition. And then here's another um
image that is often used in biology
textbooks. Uh the accumulation of random
somatic mutations cause the development
of a cancer cell. So a normal cell is
here. Then you collect one, two, three,
four, I don't know, could be hundreds of
mutations. One mut nobody nobody really
knows. and and then you move this cell
from normal growth regulation to a
dysmorphic looking cell that is uh
disregulated in cell growth. And here's
a comment from Dr. Vogelstein from the N
from John's Hopkins medical school. We
now know precisely what causes cancer. A
sequential series of alterations in
well-defined driver genes. Okay, so you
have a lot of different kinds of
mutations that you see in cancer cells,
but only the driver genes are the most
important for driving the disregulated
growth uh of of of these
cells. Okay, go here. And as a
consequence, you hear about, you know,
personalized therapy, precision
medicine. These are the terms that have
been derived from uh the view of cancer
as a genetic disease. So we take biopsy
material from tissue and then we look uh
this individual here is looking at
cancer cells from a biopsy material of
of of a person's breast tissue and
looking for extra copies of a particular
gene. Um and that information then will
tell you whether or not you should do
this or that for diagnosis and possible
therapy. And here's the situations
observer effect. When you take a bop
biopsy of a of a particular tissue, you
have you run the possibility of creating
inflammatory ankotaxis. And what that
means is that you disturb the micro
environment of the tissue which can
increase the risk of spreading the tumor
cells uh uh further through the tissue
or even throughout the body. We call
that an observer effect. It's as if you
were to approach a wasp hive uh in the
middle of the day and stick it. There's
a a possibility that the wasps will come
out of the hive and sting you. All
right? So, you've uh uh you've changed
the environment and and this now we now
know can also contribute to the spread
uh it's a risk factor for the spread of
some cancers. Something to keep in
mind. Okay. So we're going to challenge
the somatic mutation theory with uh
significant information that seems to be
either
not people want to hear it. So these are
the the the Niko monkeys. Um uh and uh
you know they don't want they when you
come up with a new idea challenging a
dogmatic view uh most people in the
field they don't want to look at the
information. They don't want to talk
about it. they don't want to hear about
it. Okay, this is the kind of basically
you you ignore it when something is
against your your your your dogmatic
view on anything. Uh oftentimes it's
it's not possible to accept this. So I'm
going to go through with you now and uh
show evidence publish papers uh that
challenge the somatic mutation theory of
cancer. So how did the idea come about
that cancer was a genetic disease in the
first place? Well, this uh scientist
Theodore Bowie in 1914 published a paper
uh suggesting the possibility that the
disregulated growth of cancer cells
could be due to abnormalities in
chromosomes, the genetic material in the
cell. However, it was very interesting
if you read this paper. Um Bovery uh uh
came into this field with no knowledge
of cancer and he was very apologetic. He
said that you know I know nothing about
cancer. I just have this idea. Maybe
it's right, maybe it's not right. I
don't know, but let me just write it
anyway. Well, the field embraced uh
Bovery many years later and anointed him
as the founding father of the somatic
mutation theory. And I'm sure Bobery
would be very displeased by this because
he knew nothing. He was completely
ignorant of cancer. And he says that he
says an I'm an interloper and I don't
really know anything about cancer. Um,
and now, you know, with more and more
analysis of tumors, we're finding some,
not all, very, very few, but they're
there. Uh, where some cancer cells have
no mutations. And, um, how is it
possible? Now, this doesn't happen a
lot. Most cancers do in fact have all
kinds of mutations, and I'll talk about
that, but there are some cancers that
don't have any mutations, and they've
been looked for, and uh, you can't find
them. So how can you have a disease
caused by mutations if there are some
tumors that have no mutations? And this
is published and most of the people in
the field either ignore it or don't
discuss it. Um now the driver this is
new information over the last couple of
years. Um cancer driver genes found in
normal cells. What does that mean? What
I I was just telling you from the work
of Vogelstein that the driver genes are
the are the genes that make and drive
the disregulated cell growth. Well, now
with deep sequencing, we're looking at
tissues in people uh in all kinds of
tissues in normal people that never
develop cancer, yet they have uh
expression of these so-called driver
genes. How can you have driver genes in
normal tissues that don't don't form
cancer? So, there's no discussion about
tumors that have no mutations or normal
tissues that have the driver genes that
never form cancer. Not discussed, not
but yet it's in these papers. And we
know some carcinogens c do not cause
mutations like asbestous. Asbestous
doesn't cause mutations, but asbestous
is a powerful
carcinogen. And then the rarity of
cancer in chimpanzees is very is very
perplexing in light of the sematic
mutation theory because the chimpanzeee
in the human uh arose from a common
ancestor and um there are closest
biological relatives uh 98% similar in
genetic and protein sequence structure.
Yet uh cancer is extremely rare in
chimpanzees. In fact, there's never been
a documented case of breast cancer in a
female chimpanzee despite the fact that
over 30,000 American women each year die
from breast cancer. So, what's going on?
Well, it's predominantly diet and
lifestyle. The chimps are eating the
diet and they have a lifestyle uh uh
very similar to the way it was when they
first
[Music]
emercated dramatically from the diet and
lifestyle that we had when we first
emerged as a species. Uh there's a
non-utoenic origin of metastatic
behavior and I'll talk about I'll talk
about that. Metastasis is the most um
deadly aspect of of cancer. And now I'm
going to talk about the nuclear transfer
experiments uh which are another fact
that completely uh uh uh undermines the
somatic mutation theory of cancer and I
as I said before I I published this
paper in 2015 very highly
uh cited and acknowledged and read paper
um but again it's very difficult pill to
swallow if you think cancer is a genetic
disease and then you read this paper and
you look at the repeated evidence
that it cannot be a genetic disease. And
this is the summary of many replicated
experiments using different kinds of
cancers, different experimental prof
protocols, yet coming to a similar uh
conclusion. So let's look, we have a
normal cell in the green. We have a nice
nucleus, no mutations. We have a little
these little bean-shaped mitochondria,
very healthy, producing energy through
oxidative phosphorilation. Uh normal
cells beget normal cells. And if they
divide the growth uh they have regulated
uh division regulated growth. Cancer
cells beget cancer cells. They have most
cancer cells yes have a lot of mutations
in the nucleus. They also have defects
in the mitochondria. Oxidative
phosphorilation respiration is
defective. Cancer cells beget cancer
cells and these cells have disregulated
growth. Right? They growth growth out of
control. Disregul is the origin of
cancer. So the question is what is
responsible for the disregulated growth?
Is it the mutations in the nucleus or is
it the abnormalities in the cytoplasm in
these mitochondria? So this was clearly
addressed by asking uh what happens when
you move the nucleus from a tumor cell
and now place it into a normal cytoplasm
with normal mitochondria and the cells
that you got were uh regulated in
growth. In other words, they they were
like normal cells. didn't have
disregulated growth despite the presence
of the cancer nucleus. Okay. On the
other hand, if the nucleus of a of a
normal cell was to be placed into the
cytoplasm of a tumor cell with abnormal
mitochondria, the cells either died or
the ones that didn't die had
disregulated cell growth. Just the
opposite of what you would have expected
here. This should have had the
disregulated growth and this should have
been the normal growth. Just the
opposite. Newer experiments are showing
that if you replace the abnormal
mitochondria with normal mitochondria,
you can get regulated growth. All of
this information clearly and profoundly
says that cancer cannot be due to the
mutations in the nucleus. They are due
primarily cancer is due to abnormalities
in the mitochondria in the cytoplasm.
That's what this all of this information
points to. So there's a fundamental
profound misunderstanding in the
scientific cancer field that uh on the
origin of the disease. So sematic
mutations are not the origin of cancer.
How do we get cancer? How does it arise?
Well, this goes back as as was said in
the intro that Warberg the German
scientist uh from the 19 20s30s he
passed away in 1970 actually. Um but he
clearly showed that cancer arises from
chronic damage to cellular respiration.
The way we get energy from oxygen.
Energy through fermentation gradually
compensates for insufficient
respiration. Fermentation is energy
without oxygen. It's a very primitive
ancient form of generating energy.
Cancer cells continue to ferment glucose
in the presence of oxygen which is
referred to as the Warberg effect. And
we call this aerobic fermentation. cells
should not
ferment in the presence of oxygen.
Cancer cells continue to ferment in the
presence of
oxygen. Very
abnormal. Now uh there was a lot of
controversy about Warberg's findings,
but we filled in we discovered that uh
uh cancer cells also ferment an amino
acid glutamine. Glutamine is the most
abundant amino acid in our bloodstream.
The most abundant amino acid in our
body. It's an amino acid glutamine. And
this uh cancer cells will ferment
glutamine. They can burn glutamine in
the absence of oxygen for energy. And we
call this the Q effect to make make sure
it's different from the Warberg effect.
Q is the singular letter that identifies
glutamine in the biochemistry u um
profile. So this is the missing link in
auto warberg's central theory um that we
now know that cancer cells survive on
fermentation but they will f ferment uh
lactic acid from gl glucose and they'll
f ferment suinic acid from glutamine. So
the cancer cells are deriving their
energy from fermentation rather than
from uh oxidative respiration. Now the
important issue here is that enhanced
fermentation is the signature metabolic
mal malady of all cancer cells. We've
looked into this. So if you look at
cancer, all these cancer cells have
different mutations. There's different
cell types, all these kind of
heterogeneity, but they're all
fermenting. So the signature metabolic
ma malady is fermentation driven by
glucose and glutamine. It's and and
you'll come to realize that if we target
glucose and glutamine, we can manage the
majority of
cancers. So let's look at the evidence
to support Worberg's central theory that
cancer is damaged respiration. So this
is an electron microraph of a
mitochondria because these are tiny tiny
organels in the cytoplasm of the cell
and you need to use electron microscopy
to really see the structure of the
organel. So you can see these nice
stripes that you see here through the
normal mitochondrian and um these are
called christe and they contain the
lipids and proteins of the electron
transport chain that allows us to
generate ATP energy from the oxygen that
we breathe. Okay. So the christay you
see how beautiful the structure is. Uh
these are very sophisticated organels.
uh they can generate tremendous amounts
of energy in the presence of oxygen to
keep all of our tissues alive and our
cell or brain and our cells uh
participatory in metabolic homeostasis.
Now this is a glyobblastoma very deadly
brain cancer. I'll talk more about that
later. But you can see it's hollow. It's
crytolesis. There's a breakdown. There's
no cristicate. So this organel is not
going to be able to generate energy
because the structure is abnormal. And
I'll show you more evidence for this.
Not just brain cancer. Here's a an
example of breast cancer. This is a uh
these are breast tumor cells and these
are normal breast epithelial cells. And
you can see the normal cell here has the
nice stripes the cris whereas the the
mitochondrian and the breast tumor has
these big holes these crystalallsis
abnormal christ um this here CRC is
colarctal cancer uh you can see the the
christo these ghost mitochondria so
structure in biology the a fundamental
evolutionary concept of biology that you
can all that everyone should be able to
appreciate is structure determines
function.
Structure determines function. If the
structure of the organel is abnormal,
the function of the organel will be
abnormal. Okay. So what I did and I
don't expect people to see this because
it's quite dense but these are all of
the major cancers that we know of lung
cancer, neuroblast, pancreatic, ovarian,
colorctyl, breast, whatever. You know, I
went through the literature and detailed
in all of these major cancers that
mitochondria were abnormal in structure
and function. Structure determines
function. If the structure is abnormal,
the function will be abnormal. If the
mitochondria structure is abnormal, the
function of that organel will be
abnormal. That the role of that organel
is to generate energy through
respiration. So if you can't generate
energy through respiration, in order to
survive, the the cell must ferment. So
let's look at energy a little bit here.
This is energy metabolism in normal
cells. The glycolysis pathway breaks
glucose down to pyuvic acid or pyuvate,
a 10step. This is an ancient pathway
that existed in all cells before oxygen
came into the atmosphere 2.5 billion
years ago. So this is an ancient ancient
pathway but it presents uh breaks down
the sugar glucose. The pyuvate enters
the mitochondria and is fully oxidized
in the KB cycle named for Hans Krebs
also the TCA cycle citric acid cycle the
same names for the same thing. And what
it does is it collects the energy from
the sun that was in PL in the bonds of
the glucose molecule. Breaks the en
these bonds down captures the energy of
the sun in these uh reducing equivalents
which then deliver their electrons to
the proteins in the christe electron
transport chain oxidative
phosphorilation and you see this large
starburst here ATP. So the most of the
energy coming in our cells 89 to 90%
energy is coming from the full oxidation
of glucose down and the waste products
are CO2 and water. Okay. So this is the
way most of all healthy cells in our
body get majority of their energy. We
all breathe air. Uh we generate energy
from the foods that we eat. We break it
down. The foods that we eat embody the
biology of the sun. The sun the sun
actually creates this. We break those
bonds down, recapture the energy of the
sun in in respiration, and we get the
majority of our energy here. Now, you
don't see these small starbursts here.
These um this is the way all cells got
energy before oxygen came into the
atmosphere. These little ancient
pathways you can get. They still they're
still there. They're still present in
modern cells. It's just that they're
very very much less energy. Most of the
energy now is coming from respiration.
Now let's compare this with what we see
in a cancer cell. So now immediately the
first thing you see is the starburst is
somewhere else. It's here. It's here
from a different source and it's also
here in the
cytoplasm. So the ancient pathways are
now producing the majority of the
energy. The oxidative phosphorilation is
not producing the energy because the
organel the crist are gone. So you're
not going to get the energy here. So the
cell the cancer cell falls back on these
ancient pathways that existed before
oxygen came into the atmosphere. The
interesting thing is when they do that
they become completely growth
disregulated and the waste products
lactic acid and suinic acid acidify the
micro environment of the tumor cell
making the spread of the tumor cell
through the tissues uh much greater
because of all the waste that's now
creating acidification which doesn't
occur in the normal cells. You don't get
any of this. So the cancer cell is
simply falling back on ancient pathways
acidifying the micro environment and
this is driven these fuels are driven
here's glucose and what's driving here
is the glutamine the glutamine the amino
acid glutamine is driving this part pro
part and the uh sugar glucose is driving
this part. So the abnormal energy of the
cancer cell is being driven by glucose
and
glutamine not by oxygen because they
lost that ability. Now this is more
complicated but this is the uh uh
structural uh example of what we're
talking about. Uh here's glycolysis the
ancient pathway of glycolysis and
glutaminolysis.
Um and uh what's happening here? Uh
glucose is metabolized to lactic acid
which acidifies the micro environment.
Um but very little ATP is coming here. I
I'll I can explain if anybody's
interested. Here's the glutamine, the
amino acid. It comes through a series of
pathways. Uh and right here, boom.
Here's the energy coming from glutamine.
So glutamine is generating the majority
of the energy. the oxygen. Cancer cells
do take in oxygen, but they're not
linked to ATP production, but rather to
the production of ROS, Ross, which are
reactive radicals that damage DNA and
RNA and actually cause a tremendous
amount of damage. So, uh, and then
suinate is dumped out to acidify the
micro environment. Lactic acid is dumped
out. So the cancer cell is driven by by
glucose and glutamine producing energy
by an ancient pathway also producing
reactive oxygen species uh causing a
tremendous amount of damage in the micro
environment. So here's our diagram uh to
encapsulate how we link the hallmarks of
cancer according to the gene theory and
Hanahan and Weineberg. All of these
hallmarks here on the right can all be
linked back to damage to the
mitochondria. So let's look carefully at
the origin of cancer. So everyone we
call certain chemicals as carcinogens
like in smoke uh there's a lot of
carcinogens in in in cigarette tobacco
smoke and we know that that can damage
mitochondria. Carcinogens damage the
mitochondria. People fear radiation
because radiation can cause cancer uh by
damaging uh mitochondria. Intermittent
hypoxia like sleep apneoa and occlusion
of a blood vessel or something can
create intermittent
hypoxia which will damage the
mitochondria. Okay. Um systemic
inflammation can damage the
mitochondria. Um obesity uh is linked to
systemic inflammation. Um,
obesity, excuse me, is the second most
uh behind smo cigarette smoke is the
most uh provocative agent for damaging
mitochondria. Uh, rare rare inherited
mutations like the BA1 gene. You heard
about Angelina Jolie with the BA one
having, you know, breasts and ovaries
removed or what have you. A lot of
women, a lot of people, many, not
everyone, but some people do this. Um,
so these mutations are risk factors.
They they are risk factors because they
damage the respiration. All of these
provocative agents are risk factors.
Encogenic viruses like papilloma and
hepatitis they damage the respiration.
Also age. The older you get, the more
likely you can have a a damage to your
respiration leading to um uh disruption
of oxidative phosphorilation. And this
had been known for many years. This was
called the ankcogenic paradox because no
one could figure out how all of these
disperate risk factors could cause
cancer uh through a common
pathophysiological mechanism. And if
those of you who read the book emperor
of all malades by Sid Mukerjee which was
on the New York Times bestseller list
for many years and was the received the
Pulitzer Prize uh for the for the book.
Um he struggles with this. He had no
idea as Muker G in the book how all
these different provocative agents could
could cause cancer through a common
pathophysiological mechanism. And we we
define we we solved the par the paradox.
Uh we know that all of these provocative
agents will cause reactive oxygen
species
RO and this these ROS are
carcinogenic and mutagenic. So the ROS
cause the mutations in the nucleus. All
right. So the mutations are an effect.
They're not the cause. They're a
downstream effect of mitochondrial
damage. But when the mitochondria can't
produce energy through oxidative
phosphorilation, they upregulate
fermentation through substrate level
phosphorilation. And what happens is
what is upregulating SLP uh fermentation
and it is the ankco genes. So the ankco
genes are facilitators of the
fermentation process. They allow the
cell to take in more glucose and
glutamine. So um when you can't breathe
the t the if if a cell doesn't die right
away but it's chronic. It's a chronic
progression over time. The cell
gradually upregulates fermentation. You
get the Warberg effect and mitochondrial
fermentation. Okay? And now you can link
all of the hallmarks of cancer that
people think are are really important
are all downstream effects of damage to
the mitochondria. So, we're spending
millions of dollars and spending massive
amounts of scientific research on on
these hallmarks that all can be linked
back to damage to the respiration. And
now that we know this, we there are very
clear ways by which we can solve this
cancer problem quite
effectively. And here and as I said, we
published this paper on the origin of
ATP synthesis in cancer because without
ATP, cancer cells can't grow. Without
ATP, none of the cells can grow. So the
first thing you want to do is where does
the energy come from that drives the
beast which is the cancer and it's
coming from fermentation. So again
normal mitochondria have the nice
stripes the crist we get most of our
energy by breathing air we have very
little risk of cancer. However, as the
damage this to this organel occurs over
time, uh you can see here's the final
result which is a complete damage to the
mitochondria and you get uh the
transformation from respiration energy
in the green to red substrate level
phosphorilation which is directly
correlated with malignancy. The more
malignant the cancer is, the more it
fermentss. The more malignant, the more
it ferments, the more malignant it is.
All right. What's driving the
fermentation? Glucose and glutamine are
driving the fermentation. So this
malignancy is directly related to
fermentation driven by glucose and
glutamine. Now let's look at metastasis.
All right? Because this is the most
fearsome ab fearful abs as they say
fearsome aspect of cancer. 90% of all
cancer deaths are due to the fact that
the cancer cells which start in some
tissue or organ now begin to spread
through your body. And that's what's
referred to as when someone says I have
stage four cancer. Stage four cancer
means it's already spread. It has
metastasized. It has spread to different
organs. The and the first uh uh linkage
of of metastasis to a non-random it's
actually a non-random process. 1889 this
person Steven Padet studying breast
cancer showed that breast cells uh
spread to organs in in a non-random way.
He referred to the cancer cells as seeds
and and the where they go the soil to
what the soil is like you know liver
kidney spleen these other organs and um
the seed soil we solve the seed soil
hypothesis by showing that the seeds are
like mitochondria uh or correction
macrofasage is a different kind of cell
and I'll discuss this in a minute and
they do they do a non-random dis spread
through the body. So here's here's a
picture of metastasis uh an artwork uh
that was produced. The green cells here
are the cancer cells. Okay. So these are
the green the green cells are your
cancer cells. Um and this is the
non-random metastatic cascade. A
non-random metastatic cascade because if
you have colon cancer, breast cancer, um
um ovarian cancer, the process is it
follows this cascade. The first thing
that happens is the cancer cells bust
through the basement membrane and they
start to locally invade uh the tissue
from where they started. A local
invasion. The second step is
intravisization which means they enter
into the bloodstream. They go through
the blood vessel wall and enter into the
bloodstream. They are not killed by the
immune system be because as I will show
you they are part of the immune system.
So they're imu not only are they not
killed by the immune system, they
actually suppress our immune system to
be dysfunctional. That's because these
cells and I'll show you they are part of
the immune system. They're macrofasages
actually. And then what happens? They
get into the
bloodstream and they spread through and
it's called extravisation. They exit the
blood vessels. These are all extremely
sophisticated biological processes that
cannot occur through random mutations.
The randomness makes no sense when
you're looking at in a non-random
cascade. So they extravagate and they
set up secondary to tumor formation. So
if this were a breast tumor breaks
through the basal membrane, gets into
the bloodstream and then you'll get the
tumor cells in the lung, the spleen, uh
sometimes the brain, different different
organs. So the question how can
accumulation of random sematic mutations
according to the sematic mutation theory
cause a non-random medicine? None of
this. When you start to understand what
cancer is, everything associated with
the sematic mutation theory makes no
sense. Yet, the field continues to
embrace the sematic mutation
theory. Now, here's the way we get
metastatic cancer. So, here's uh normal
epithelial cells could be in the breast,
it could be in the lung, it could be
somewhere. Uh one of the provocative
agents um risk factors causes a uh
abnormality in the mitochondria leading
to disregulated cell growth. But these
cells can't spread anywhere. They are
cancer cells, stem cells. They by
growing they create abnormality in the
micro environment which our body
recognizes as a wound. Cancer is
recognized as a unhealed wound. Now the
red cells are our wound healing cells.
They're called macrofagages. Their job
in our body is to kill bacteria and heal
wounds. So they see these blue cells as
a wound. So they come in and they throw
out various growth factors that will try
to to heal wounds. But that's the wrong
context. Those growth factors cause
these blue cells uh uh incipient cancer
cells to become even more destabilized
in their growth. And these macrofasages
have a capacity if the wound doesn't
heal right away, they have a very
powerful fusogenic property where they
actually fuse with other cells to
facilitate wound healing. So what
happens now is the macrofasage that was
designed in our by our body to heal the
wound fuses with these cancer cells
diluting the mitochondria in these cells
to become abnormal. Now these
macrofagages already have the capacity
to intravisate exttravisate suppress the
immune system. This is the origin of of
our metastatic cells. It's a fusion
hybridization between one of the normal
cells in our body with one of these
abnormally disregulated cells that
cannot metastasize. This is a local
event. But to get this the local event
to become systemic, there's this fusion
hybridization. And these cells now enter
and exit the nerve. So you get rogue
macrofasages spreading all around your
body driven by glucose and glutamine.
These cells are absolutely dependent on
glucose and glutamine for their survival
to make ATP. Right? So you don't need
new mutations. So all this mutation
stuff is just a deviation. So if most
cancer cells obtain energy through
fermentation, you know what therapies
might be effective for managing and
preventing tumors? Well, one approach is
to reduce levels of fermentable fuels
while elevating levels of
non-fermentable fuels. Not complicated.
So what we do here, if the tumor cell
absolutely needs glucose for its rapid
growth, you got to lower systemic
glucose. You got to reduce the sugar and
you elevate fuels that the tumor cells
can't use. So our normal cells are great
at using fatty acids and ketone bodies.
The tumor cells cannot use these fuels
because they cannot be fermented. They
have to be respired. So the tumor cell
becomes at a competitive disadvantage
when you lower the fuels that are
absolutely needed. Water only fasting,
calorie restriction or ketogenic diets
all will lower blood sugar levels
elevating ketones which the tumor cells
can't use.
Okay. So, we developed the glucose
ketone index uh calculator. It's just a
simple tool to monitor. Now, this was
for brain cancer. Moni monitor
therapeutic efficacy for brain cancer.
But it we now know all all of the major
cancers suffer the same problem. All the
major cancers need glucose and
glutamine. So, but for lowering glucose
and elevating ketones, which puts most
cancer cells in a defensive position, we
we we built this little simple
calculator and you keto mojo is a is the
meter that you can buy from uh Amazon
and it will measure blood sugar and
blood ketones. And if you can get a
ratio uh the GKI ratio of 2.0 zero or
below, you are now putting your body the
the body into a state of nutritional
ketosis, which is depriving the tumor
cell of the of the glucose needed to
grow. Uh it doesn't target the
glutamine, but it certainly can tell you
what stage you're in for targeting or
reducing the glucose of the tumor
growth. Now, what we've done is we
produced this press pulse uh concept.
It's a no novel therapeutic strategy for
met metabolic management of cancer. And
um when patients enter the clinic uh not
only do they have cancer but many cancer
patients not all but many have
co-orbidities, hypertension, high blood
pressure, type two diabetes, they have
all of these other maladies. So in order
to move the patient from a a very
critical stage to a less critical stage,
we in introduce uh restricted ketogenic
diet therapy. Ketone supplementation
attempts to press down the availability
of the glucose. We also use stress
management. Um when people are diagnosed
with cancer, they have this impending
doom, uh a feeling that they're all
going to be dead and they're going to
die and they're going to suffer and all
this kind of stuff. And that raises
blood sugar. Anxiety raises blood sugar.
So what we do is stress management
together with uh a diet therapeutic
approach to lower the the glucose and
elevate the ketones. And once the
patient is in a state of nutritional
ketosis, then we do pulse therapies. We
don't ever want to treat patients with
toxic levels of drugs. Uh it's you pulse
them. You once the patient is in this
you begin to pulse glucose drugs that
target glucose like uh embendazol the
parasite medication and fenendazol
glutamine targeting with Don and
glutamine uh um I'll talk about that in
a minute and hyperbaric oxygen which
creates oxidative stress without
toxicity I mean you can you can use
radiation to create oxidative stress but
that radiation also damages your normal
tissue. We don't want that. We want to
use therapies that will achieve the same
goal without damaging your normal
tissues. There should be no reason why
people should ever be exposed to all
kinds of toxic therapies to make
themselves healthy. So what happens now
is we bring the patient into a state of
management. Um the patient still has
tumors but we gradually remove
co-orbidities like I've mentioned. Um
and then through uh perfections of
dosage, timing and scheduling with these
press pulse therapies, we can then move
the patient from a state of management
either into very long-term management or
even possible uh resolution. And this is
the cutting edge right now. What is the
best doses
timing that can achieve long-term
management, high quality of life and
possible uh resolution? This is a work
in progress. It's the cutting edge and
this will be the future of how we're
going to manage the majority of cancers.
Now, I'm going to talk specifically
about one type of cancer, glyopblastoma.
Um, which is among the most aggressive
uh primary brain tumors, very poor
prognosis. Um, um, median survival is
only about 10 to 15 months. Uh, composed
of many different cell types, neoplastic
stem cells, neoplastic meenal cells with
macrofage characteristics. As I said,
this is the rogue macroofage, the most
deadly and difficult aspect responsible
for metastasis. And they can also
metastasize outside the nervous system
in in some people. So, we're really
dealing with a very difficult disease.
Um, usually it's always considered
terminal, incurable, uh, all of these
kinds of terms. You're hopeless. You
hear all these kinds of terms when you
discuss this. So, here's a gross section
of a a person's brain who died from
glyopblasto. You can see the massive
discoloration cystic regions. You see
that? Here's the midline. The midline of
the brain is shifted to the left. Should
be nice and straight. The as the tumor
grew uh what happens to these poor folks
is that the intercraanial pressure from
the expanding tumor uh will eventually
cause unconsciousness and death. Um this
tumor was irdiated. this massive
discoloration here. And what happened,
why you can't cure these things with
surgery um is because the tumor cells
have already spread through the whole
brain. And these dark purple cells that
you see on the right here in this image,
these are the tumor cells around blood
vessels and they use the blood vessels
as a railway system to move through the
entire brain. So even the surgeon could
take say, well, we got n we get most of
it of course, but you didn't get all of
it and the all and the rest of it is out
through the brain. and um and then it'll
come back uh always. Um and here's the
survival statistics of glyobblasto
patients um under current standards of
care from five Canad Canadian surgical
institutions. But I want to tell you
this is not unique for these five
institutions. It's seen in every major
uh oncology clinic throughout the world.
The survival is abysmal. This is 40
months. Um and as you can see most of
the patients in these institutions have
expired uh before 40 months. Um this one
institution I I don't know this seems to
be if the patients die faster in that
institution but the other four but this
is pretty much similar all throughout
the world in all different clinics. um
uh you know this there's no improvement
in in survival for glyobblasto in almost
100 years 1926 they they they had the
same survival for glyopblasto as we have
now in 20 in 2022. Now think about it
for a minute think of all of the
advances in science and technology that
have occurred over the last 100 years.
Okay. So, we have the web telescope
which is now orbiting 1 million miles
from earth uh uh uh uh which is looking
now at the origin of the universe uh
with this new time type of telescope.
The science and technology over the last
100 years in almost all aspects of our
of our society has has improved
significantly yet no advance in the
survival of GBM. And what is going on?
What can account for the lack of
progress in managing glyo in fact many
of the metastatic cancers we've done a
very poor job and and one of the reasons
at least for glyobblasto and for others
as well is the uh the way we treat the
tumor. Okay. So the patient is diagnosed
they do surgical debulking and right
after surg debulking uh radiotherapy uh
is given to the patients and
radiotherapy breaks apart glucose and
glutamine um metabolism in the brain uh
creates massive inflammation uh from the
surgery as well as the radiation
especially the radiation as when the
brain is irradiated the uh head swells
your head gets hot your brain gets hot
you swell so in order to reduce the
swelling from the
radiation a steroid which creates
hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia is high blood
sugar. As I said the CA cancer cell
cannot live without without sugar. So
the very treatment creates the radiation
itself creates a high increase in blood
sugar. The dexamethasone used to reduce
the swelling creates high blood sugar.
The radiation breaks apart the glutamine
glutamate cycle freeing up massive
amounts of glutamine. So the two fuels
that are driving cancer glutamine and
glucose are produced in large quantities
by the very procedures used to manage
the disease. Not only that these tumor
cells the glyobblastoma tumor cells are
many patients are infected with human
cyto megalo virus human cytogal virus
which is acts as a turbocharger in the
tumor cells to use glutamine and
glucose. So the two fuels driving the
cancer cells are massively produced by
the very therapy that's used to treat
the
disease. Okay, which can which now can
which now explains uh the problem. So um
you don't survive. There's two reasons.
First of all, the tumor is bad by
itself. There's no question about that.
And second of all, the very treatment
used to to to manage the tumor
contributes to the rapid demise and the
rapid acceleration of uh patients uh
reduced survival. And um so it's clear
why we haven't made any progress. Number
one, the tumor is bad. They don't
understand that it's a metabolic
disease, not a genetic disease. And the
very treatment that we're using
contributes to the rapid recurrence and
demise of the patients. And as Einstein
said, insanity is doing the same thing
over and over and expecting a different
result. As long as we continue to treat
the patients in the clinic the way we
are treating them, this survival curve
will will not change. This will be the
way it is for well into the future. As
long as we can continue to do what we're
doing in the way we try to manage the
disease. So um to give you an idea of
how we use press pulse therapy to manage
um preclinical glyopblasto uh we have
this tumor that we have in the mouse
that replicates all of the invasive
characteristics of the human
glyopblastoma. Powerful tool. Um we
tested our hypothesis that the com that
the that the that the targeting of
glutamine and glucose together will
provide a rational approach for the
long-term management of the disease. And
we published this paper in commu
communications biology. This is the
first paper study showing how we can use
a diet and a drug together to target
simultaneously the availability of the
glucose and glutamine. The two fuels
absolutely essential for the growth of
the tumor cells. Okay. So here's the
hisystologology just so you can see how
powerful this is. A standard diet
unrestricted SDR is the mice that ate a
high carbohydrate standard diet. The
ketogenic diet restricted is the highfat
lowcarbohydrate diet presented and fed
in restrict amounts. And the ketogenic
diet restricted plus dawn and that's the
the the previous drug that I want to
show you. Here it is six dazo nor
leucine. This drug was used in the
cancer clinic years ago. It wasn't
considered uh it was really good in
children with leukemia. Uh but it wasn't
so good in other uh cancers. Uh they
said it had toxicity um and it wasn't
able to resolve cancer. Well, they never
targeted the glucose and they gave the
drug in in very high concentrations. So,
you have to know what to do. You can't
just do stuff without understanding the
biology of the disease. So we combined
the glutamine inhibitor together with
the ketogenic restricted diet uh to
achieve uh remarkable success in
managing uh this glyobblasto. So here
now if you look at here you see this
dark blue on the left those are the
rapidly growing uh glyobblastoma cells
and they're coming migrating invading
they're invading deeply into the white
part of the normal part of the brain.
And when you look at them at a higher
power, you can see the cells are piled
on top of each other. They can't they
can't grow. They can't grow any faster
than they are growing. Now, you give
them the ketogenic diet by itself and
you see the white the the there's much
less density and they're not invading as
much into the normal part of the brain.
This is the the wider area. And you'll
see spacing. So, the cells are there.
They're dividing. They're still growing,
but they're not growing as fast. So the
restricted ketogenic diet which is
targeting glucose is causing the cells
to grow less
aggressively. But now when you combine
the diet with the drug all this is all
dead cells. These are all the tumor
cells that are now dead. Um massive
death of the tumor cells. So you
slaughtered these tumor cells. So they
cannot survive without the glucose and
the glutamine. The diet targets the
glucose. The drug dawn targets the
glutamine. and together you can
slaughter and and remove these tumor
cells, get rid of them. And here the
most important thing of any cancer
therapy and treatment is two things.
Quality of life and overall survival. Th
that's the that's how you determine
whether or not something is working. If
you take drugs and things and you say,
"Well, my tumor is shrinking, but I I
feel I'm sick all the time and I feel
horrible."
the quality
of you really
want and overall survival. So this is
what we have demonstrated by using press
pulse uh diet drug combination. So this
blue line here look how fast the mice
will die if just allowed to eat the high
carbohydrate diet. So you can see uh
very quickly just like the of course the
mouse metabolic rate is seven times
faster than that of a human. So you can
see them they die very quickly over a
few days whereas the humans you saw they
they don't survive much beyond um you
know three in the case of humans three
years in the GBM. Um but now you take
okay so the the guys eating the high
carb diets die quick because they have
plenty of glucose and glutamine. The
guys getting the ketogenic diet
restricted live a little bit longer but
they all die too. So you're you're
shutting down the glucose but not the
glutamine. Then you use the high
carbohydrate with Dawn the glutamine
inhibitor. They survive a little bit
better, but they're all dead as well.
Now, you pay you take the diet and the
drug together and you get long-term
survival. The qual these guys look very
healthy and now we're with doses,
timing, and scheduling, we're keeping
these guys alive much longer. And it
really works well against pediatric
glyobblastoone p these very deadly
childhood brain tumors. I'm telling you
this diet drug combination is really
very effective, non-toxic and can keep
the why because we're targeting the very
the nature of what the tumors need. So,
and the other uh remarkable phenomenon
that we found is that when you deliver
the drug dawn together with the
ketogenic diet, this is electro uh uh
liquid chromatography mass spectral
analysis of the drug in the in the in
the brain uh near the tumor. And what
you see here is that uh you get much
more drug on target when you deliver the
drug with the ketogenic diet restricted.
So this is really uh really remarkable.
So the the ketogenic diet facilitates
drug delivery to the
tumor. Now let's see what happens when
we try it on human. Okay, let's see
let's do press pulse therapy uh for the
metabolic management of glyobblasto in a
patient. So this young man came into the
clinic and my colleague Dr. Elsaka from
Alexandria, Egypt, uh read our work and
said, "Oh, we have to definitely do
metabolic therapy for uh patients in the
clinic." So he said, "Uh uh okay." So we
we looked at this young man. He was a
corn farmer. He came in to the clinic
and his whole left side of his body was
paral paralyzed. He his leg didn't work,
his left leg and his arm. And he had a
glyopblastoma on MRI imaging analysis.
So the patient was fasted water only for
three days and then for 21 days given a
very low carbohydrate diet uh 900 kilo
calories and uh then the tumor was so he
had three weeks of uh a little over
three weeks of of metabolic treatment
and then his tumor was removed in an
awake crattomy. And when he was when he
recovered
um he was continued to uh give
intermittent fasting uh restricted diets
with hyperbaric oxygen therapy um uh for
for three months. He was doing
remarkably well. I mean he was back
walking, you know, he was up and around.
He was back home. Uh then he had to go
do this um radiation. So I said to Dr.
Elsa, why are we doing radiation on this
patient uh when he's doing so well? And
he said, well, this is the standard of
care. We have to do this. We have no
choice. Whether whether you're in any
clinic in the United States or anywhere
in the world, they do radiation and
chemo. And the chemo is tennisolomide,
TNZ, a toxic alkalating agent. So, we g
him on the diet, did hyperbaric oxygen,
radiation, and teamomide
um for nine months over a nine-month
period. Um and then he went back after
the treatment uh three months on a low
carbohydrate. He was doing great. MRIs,
everything looked everything looked
pretty good. He he handled all of these
treatments uh really well. Um and as you
can see here, the glucose ketone index,
we brought it down into the therapeutic
zone. 15 months, he was doing really
well. Here's the tumor in his brain. Um
you can see the tumor here, this white
part. And you can see the big shift to
the right, the midline shift. the red
line is shifted from the tumor, but as
the tumor begins to shrink from the
treatment, the midline shift straightens
out. Uh yeah, he went back, the guy was
doing really well. He was back out in
the in the farm uh doing his work in the
in the corn. He was a corn farmer. And
then at about um I think it was 28 29
months uh he started to complain of
headaches. Um and then unfortunately at
30 months the patient uh expired and uh
they did a an autopsy and and they found
that his brain uh it was called uh
radiation uh radiation necrosis
liquefification. So he seemed to died
from liquefification of his brain from
the radiation treatment. Uh the
pathologist said he didn't see tumor
cells so it looked like it was all
radiation damage. Um so that's when we
decided to uh
uh
maybe therapy should become the standard
of care for glyobblasto uh rather than
toxic radiation and and what they're
presently doing. And I published this
paper with my colleagues uh clearly
clearly documenting how the standard of
care is actually contributing to the
rapid recurrence and growth of the tumor
leading to the demise of the patients
and why we're not making any major
progress in managing glyopblasto because
we continue to use the same uh treatment
that uh facilitates the uh that
facilitates the presence of glucose and
glutamine and if you don't target
glucose and glutamine these tumor cells
will grow will always grow very rapidly.
So, it's my opinion that the replacement
of the current standard of care
radiation and chemo with ketogenic
metabolic therapy will improve quality
of life and overall survival of most GBM
patients. Okay. And now we'll look at
individual uh pictures. I've shown this
before. Uh Britney Maynard. Uh
interestingly enough, she was diagnosed
with glyopblasto in January uh 14, 2014.
She also at first when they did the
biopsy that said, oh, she had a
low-grade tumor. Uh that's really good
because you're supposed to live uh much
longer with a low-grade stage two. But
they uh one month after they did the
biopsy, the tumor exploded into a
glyopblastoma. Um and that's what I call
uh the influence of an inflammatory
ankotaxis. You disturb the micro
environment causing the tumor to explode
into a
glyobblasto. Um you know she here here's
her picture right after she got married.
She was a big article in People
magazine. My decision to die. Uh she was
from California. She Oregon this the
state the next state up north um has a
right to die. Death with dignity. So
you're allowed to take your own life uh
if you are confronted with a terminal
disease uh like she was with
glyopblasto. So here she is uh uh uh
before she died. And you can see her
face doesn't look like it looks here.
This swollenness is from highdose
steroids. It's called moonface. And
that's a characteristic that this young
lady was given highdose steroids to try
to reduce the inflammation in her brain.
And we know that highdose steroids will
increase the level of glucose so that
it's actually driving the growth of her
tumor uh in an attempt to reduce the
inflammation. And this is another tragic
case. Danny Sheen, he just recently
passed away in 2021. He was a a young
man from here near Boston and uh he had
a
pinealoblast which is similar to adult
glyobblastoma but it occurs in kids and
he was diagnosed in 2017
uh with this tumor and you can see him
shortly before he died. His face is
completely swollen from the steroids,
the highdose steroids that they gave to
this little guy in an attempt to reduce
the inflammation. And we know that the
highdose steroids will contribute to the
rapid uh tumor growth. Um here's another
case. This is Pablo Kelly. We published
this paper last year. Uh Pablo uh
contact he also was diagnosed with
terminal glyobblasto in 2014 just like
Britney. Um uh he he went to the clinic.
He was having seizures and headaches and
things like this and they said uh they
did the hisystologology and said you
have a glyobblasto a terminal uh uh
cancer and um but he himself he he
resisted the strong armed tactics of his
clinical team to do radiation and chemo.
He said no I don't want to do that. And
he said well you're going to be dead in
nine months if you don't do that. So no
radiation, no chemo, no steroids. Um, so
Pablo contacted me and I said, you know,
I just said told him, I says, well, you
know, you can try metabolic therapy, see
what happens. Um, so he he shifted, he
didn't do radiation chemo and he he went
on a very low carb, zero carbohydrate
diet, more like a a carnivore diet
actually, but it was still quite quite
low in carbs. And now he's still living.
I I he has a a web page. You can talk to
Pablo and ask him questions about, you
know, his his story and what he's done.
Um he's out now almost 90 months, eight
years I guess will be August he'll be
out eight years survival. Um but there's
a bigger story behind why he's why he's
alive and uh uh let let me tell you
about this. So so what Pablo did and we
have five years of detailed uh
information on how he measured his blood
glucose and ketones um many times a day,
several times a week depending on the
situation.
[Music]
his blood glucose and ketones were
managed well his GKI was 2.0 zero or
below. Look at and he was very
aggressive. Now then three years after
initiating the metabolic therapy, he
decided his tumor continued to grow. We
didn't cure his cancer. All we did was
slow down his the rate of growth and by
three years after his diagnosis in 2017
uh he decides to have a debulking
surgery. He never had surgery at the
beginning. Um he just did metabolic
therapy. So after three years he he
reduced the size of his tumor. He
thought he was cured, but then the tumor
started growing again slowly and he went
back on the metabolic therapy, a
carnivore kind of that's not so
debilitating. You know, he's eat the
steaks and lamb with butter on it and
things like this. You can talk to him on
his web page. Um and then uh the tumor
was managed and just recently last year
he had his second debulking surgery and
um you know he's going through these pro
procedures uh but he's still alive and
he has a a good qual generally a good
quality of life and uh he he did
metabolic therapy alone. Now the here's
the situation and I know this is
complicated but there's several reasons
for why Pablo is still alive with a
terminal glyopblasto. Number one he
rejected standard of care. Okay, that's
number one. Number two, he went on a
metabolic therapy. Uh number three, his
tumor had this mutation called Idh1
mutation. This is a I call it a gift
from God. Uh it's a it's just
a a random mutation, but the mutation
acts as a drug that targets the
glycolysis and glutaminolysis pathways.
So, it's a
therapeutic mutation that some people
with glyopblastoomas get. It's not known
how or why, but the but the as but the
answer is is that we know that that
mutation
uh uh restricts the glycolytic pathway
and the glutaminolysis pathway thereby
shutting down the availability of
glucose and glutamine to the tumor. This
together with his young age this
together with his metabolic therapy alto
together are keeping him alive um for
all these different reasons. So our
bodies naturally can can randomly
produce or acquire acquire a mutation
that actually acts as a drug and
together with a diet I mean we put it
all together and this guy is just very
fortunate to not take radiation and
chemo and to be very fortunate in
acquiring a mutation that acts as a drug
targeting glucose and glutamine if you
can believe it. So uh GBM and other
stage four cancers should not be
considered terminal if treated with
ketogenic metabolic therapy. This gives
the opportunity uh for patients to
uh and and overall potentially overall
better survival. Are you passionate
about the groundbreaking and heroic
research of Dr. Thomas Ciphid on
metabolic therapy and cancer? So are we.
That's why we've created something
special for you in collaboration with
Johnny Rocker, a German book publisher
and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safereed's work. Dive
into the science and discoveries. These
summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer cancer
as a metabolic disease.com to get your
copy. You can buy the ebook there
directly and the paperbook via the
provided links. Here's the best part. A
portion of every purchase goes directly
to support Dr. Thomas Safereaded's
groundbreaking research. That's why the
direct ebook purchase is the best option
to donate as much as possible. You can
see all of the donations Mr. Rocker has
already made at www.
ketoforcancer.net. That's right. When
you buy our books, you're not just
investing in your own knowledge, you're
also contributing to the future of
cancer research. Help us make a
difference. Together, we can drive
change and save lives.
So, my the paper that we wrote, uh, can
the mitochondrial metabolic theory
explain better the origin of management
of cancer than can the sematic mutation
theory? Absolutely. Uh, you read this
paper, I understand it could be kind of
difficult. There's some scientific
literacy that's required, but we set up
the thing. So the geocentric theory says
that the earth is the center of the
solar system. The sun and all the
planets revolve around the earth. Um as
you can see this was complicated for
centuries. The the orbitals were were
very
confusing. But when the sun was placed
in the center of the solar system, the
orbits of all the planets made a much
greater amount of sense and could be
much more easily explained. So we we
consider the geocentric theory
comparable to the sematic mutation
theory a real mess of confusion in
trying to manage cancer because instead
of putting the here's where the nucleus
is the center of the disease and here's
where the mitochondria becomes the
center of the disease. The mitochondrial
metabolic theory it can explain better
the origin and management of cancer than
can the sematic mutation theory. So it
is not clear how many years or decades
it will take for the cancer field to
recognize that the mitochondrial
metabolic theory can explain better the
origin and management of cancer. I don't
know how long it's going to take um
people just have to know about it. So
the conclusions most cancers including
glyobblasto and I didn't get a chance to
talk about breast cancer lung cancer
colon cancer but there all the cancers
are very similar uh they all depend on
glucose and glutamine. Cancer is not a
genetic disease. So you have to realize
this. It's not a genetic disease. It's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease. Relying
on substrate level
phosphorilation for energy. This is the
hallmark of all the major cancers. The
simultaneous restriction of glucose and
glutamine will help manage most cancers.
This will be the the way we manage the
press pulse metabolic therapy is a
non-toxic cost-effective strategy for
the uh management possible management of
most cancers especially uh glyobblasto.
So we now we now have a a a pathway uh
by which we can move forward. I don't
know how long it's going to take for the
for the field to come to realize this.
Um but the takeaways you can uh start
immediately was recommended by um uh to
to put as our final slide. Uh so cancer
patients and their family members should
ask these three simple questions of
their oncologists. If anyone is is
diagnosed with cancer, number one, is
the treatment you are proposing for me
based on is it based on the sematic
mutation theory or on the mitochondrial
metabolic theory? The oncologist should
know this. Will the treatment you are
proposing for me be able to reduce the
availability of the two fuels glucose
and glutamine that are driving the
disregulated growth of my cancer? Will
the treatment you propose for me be able
to target my cancer cells while
enhancing the health and vitality of the
normal cells and tissues of my body? So
these three questions all cancer
patients have the opportunity to ask
their their oncologist because the
answers to these questions could predict
the ultimate destiny of the patient. So
uh I'd like to acknowledge the many
physicians and scientists who have been
working with me over the years. We are
attempting
to
metabolic I'm the Chinese in China.
They're very excited about this. Um, in
Venezuela, in in Brazil, and many
European countries, are we getting to
realize now that cancer is a metabolic
disease with metabolic solutions that
can reduce significantly toxicity and
improve quality of life and overall
survival? And of course, you know, to do
our fundamental research, we need
support. And the funding we get comes
from a number of private foundations and
and and and the good the good of
individual people. uh the goodwill of
individual metabolic Christopherson's
Travis Christopherson's Foundation for
Metabolic Cancer Therapies. We support
the George Hugh Foundation, Dr. Joseph
Maroon of Pittsburgh, Mr. Edward Miller,
extremely important to support our work.
The Kenneth Rean Foundation, the
CrossFit Organization has supported us.
Children with Cancer United Kingdom, a
private foundation for pediatric uh
cancers are supporting our work. the
university, my Boston College, uh the
Institute of um metabol of oral
um and toxicology and in the past the
NIH and um I will stop at this point and
be able to answer any questions that uh
you might have. Thank you for your
attention.
All right. Thank you so much, Dr. See
free for that. Um, great great
presentation. Um, also before we start
the Q&A, um, if anyone wants to follow
up with you or find any of your books,
what's the best way to do that? Oh,
well, you can email me. Um, and I'll be
happy to address any questions or
further information that you might have.
So, okay, great. And we have your your
book up here, too, if anyone wants to
check out our site. Um,
okay. All right. So, um, before we get
to Q&A, we just want to explain to
everyone, um, basically how we do this.
We don't take questions from the chat
normally. Instead, we ask everyone to
virtually raise your hand. Um, if you're
not sure how to do this, you go to the
bottom portion of your Zoom window and
hit the reactions tab. Um, from there,
another window should pop up that will
have a raise hand icon. You click that
and then we will see that you have a
raised hand in our participants window.
Um we will take then the questions in
the order in which you receive them.
When it's your turn we will unmute you
and prompt you to ask your question. And
uh with that are you ready to start the
questions doctor? Yeah go ahead. Okay
great. Okay first we
have
okay we have Steve.
Okay.
Yes. Uh hi Dr. Cyre. Um are you you're
saying to it that glucose is feeding
cancer. So does that mean what does that
mean in terms of one should we eat
fruit? Two should we eat beans because
do they turn to sugar and three what
about whole grains because do they turn
to sugar?
Well they can in some people uh more
than others. I mean you measure your
glucose ketone index will tell you what
you can and cannot eat. It's very
simple. You get the meter, you take your
blood measurements, and if it says that
beans make your blood sugar go high,
don't eat beans. I mean, you can make
every person can make the decision for
themselves based on their GKI, the
glucose ketone index. What about fruit
though? I don't measure your GKI and see
what happens. You know, grapefruit is
very low glycemic. Uh uh an orange could
be much higher. Again, measure your GKI.
Your answer will be given to you by your
your GKI which could vary from one
person to the next. It's not constant.
No one may
not. So way to know what you can or
cannot eat. You measure your GKI.
Thank you.
Okay. Next we have Deborah. Deborah,
what is your question for Dr. Seaffrey?
Hi. Yes. Good morning. I wanted to ask
um I understand the difference between
when you have cancer and don't have
cancer maybe different protocols but at
this conference there's of course a lot
of talk and adopting
plant-based um and vegans and vegetarian
and then um today in this talk having
someone who has cancer and you're
promoting or saying that part of the
treatment would be the keto um and
achieving ketosis um quite often ketosis
and keto is associated with eating lots
of meat and vegetable protein. So I
guess I have two questions.
Um it what I wanted to know I guess is
is there a way to achieve the ketosis
and the good results still not eating
meat or in the event that you get cancer
forget the vegan stuff just go have a
hamburger?
No. No. Again it's the GKI. Um, you can
be in ketosis on a completely vegan diet
or on a carnivore diet. So again, like
Pablo Kelly did, he was measuring his
glucose ketone index and he was able to
keep it 2.0 or below. Someone on a vegan
diet could do the same thing. It's just
that the food items that will keep you
in ketosis vary differ. Again, it's
mostly due to low carbohydrate. The
lower the carbohydrate you have in the
diet, the better you're going to have a
GKI value. And again, this is like the
last question. uh we can't know that for
each person unless they do their own
measurements and we find it varies
tremendously what one person can eat and
what the other person cannot eat and
it's all comes down to so if you're
going to be a vegan or a carnivore or
whatever as long as you can keep a low
GKI uh then that is one way to um reduce
the rate of tumor growth
okay great next we have Yon Yon What is
your questions? Hi uh thank you for the
great presentation doctor. So I have uh
two quick question. One uh does your
research show that the press pal pulse
metabolic therapy help also for small
cell cancer? And my second question if a
patient want to get this treatment of
press pulse metabolic therapy where he
can find it and is it available for for
your knowledge in
Israel? Well again
um yeah it works it it all the cancers
all the ma all the major cancers have
the same problem. So small cell cancer
is the has the is dependent on glucose
and glutamine as well. um colon,
erectile, all the major cancers that if
if you look at our our science paper, we
we went through all the major cancers.
So, they all need glucose and glutamine
for the most part.
Um there are clinics that are opening up
uh slowly um around the world and even
in Israel uh there are some folks you
you just have to take those three
questions that I put at the end and go
to the oncologists and see how they
answer those questions and then you'll
know whether or not you can use meta if
they if they're familiar with metabolic
therapy for cancer they should be able
to provide you with accurate answers to
those to those questions. If they have
never heard of metabolic therapy, they
never know about Otto Warberg, they
didn't know this, then you have to
recognize that these people probably
don't understand the biology of the
disease. And then you you you have to
make decisions based on that
information. So yeah, I mean different
countries, the Turkish group in
Istanbul, Turkey is embracing metabolic
therapy and they're getting quite quite
good success on advanced uh terminal
cancers. So uh again a lot of people are
going to the Istanbul clinic. There are
certain clinics that are opening up in
in in in uh United States, but it's
they're few and far between because most
people go to their major oncology
centers um for information and most of
the ecology centers are either don't
know about it or don't accept it or
whatever. So, you just have to, you
know, do your own investigation on that.
All right. Thank you everyone for that
question. Thank you, doctor. Next, we
have Wendy. Wendy, what is your
question?
Yeah. Hi, thank you so much. Um, my
question regarding press pulse therapy,
are there any devices that one can
afford to buy to have for their self?
And otherwise, how do you find doctors
that uh use press pulse therapy and the
uh DOM or whatever that drug therapy is?
Thank you. Yeah. Well, the device would
be the the Keto Mojo. um blood glucose
ketone meter. You can get it from
Amazon. Um uh and the consumables, I
mean, the meter itself is not that
expensive. I don't know, maybe $60. Uh
but the consumables, the glucose strips
are cheap. The the glutamine or the
correction, the the ketone strips are a
little bit more expensive. Um but you
can use urine urine uh ketone strips in
between the blood strips for for ketone
measurement. um whether like again
unfortunately
uh what I've outlined is the future of
cancer meta uh uh management um you
don't you don't see this in all the
major clinics and I I'm surprised they
they some of the physicians hear
about oncologist a lot of them just
don't um know about it and I think it's
important who's who's going to tell the
oncology clinics that they want press
pulse
If you go in and say, "Listen, I I
breast cancer, colon cancer, whatever.
I'd like I'd like press pulse metabolic
therapy um rather than radiation and
chemo." Uh well, then you have to see
what kind of response you get. Ask those
three questions that I put at the end.
And then you'll know right off the bat
whether they can do that or not and
whether they want to do that or not. I'm
sorry to interrupt for brain cancer but
not for the other cancers. I I'm sorry.
I'm not clear. the me I have the keto
mojo but the press pulse therapy I don't
know what you mean by that exactly are
there any things that we can buy
ourselves that would provide that yeah
yeah okay so once you what the way the
clinics work um is that once the patient
is in nutritional ketosis with a GKI of
2.0 zero or below is when the patient
would then be uh given by a professional
uh physician uh dosages of uh of
different drugs uh that will target
glucose and glutamine. So you need to uh
be aligned with a physician that can
prescribe
uh these different approaches and access
to a hyperbaric oxygen chamber uh is
also part of this and you will need to
this is unfortunately uh there's no very
few if any clinics that really put this
package together um for helping the
patients and uh it's going to be uh on
the part of the patients to demand this
if they if they want this, they're going
to have to tell the the oncologists or
the uh the treating facility that uh
press pulse we've clearly outlined what
is needed to be done, how to do it. So,
it's the part on the part of the
oncologist to read this information and
adapt it into their into their clinics.
So, um once this happens, I think we're
going to start seeing much greater uh
improvement. But you're right. I mean,
right now you say, well, what can I do?
Can I go out buy my own hyperbaric
oxygen chamber? They're very expensive.
I I wouldn't do this. I would find a
place where you could. And the other the
other problem is the insurance companies
uh will cover the cost of hyperbaric
oxygen to improve your body after you've
been irdiated. Uh but they don't approve
it uh for managing the cancer itself. So
you have this insurance issue problem
that also has to be resolved. So there
is a number of of of situations that
must be resolved. Even though the
concepts and the strategy is clear for
helping people live longer with cancer
at a higher quality of life, the
application of this is in its infancy
and has not yet been fully recognized or
adapted in the in the various cancer
clinics and that's what will have to
come from the pressure of the cancer
patients to make sure those changes
occur.
Thank you.
All right. Thank you for that, Wendy.
Thank you, doctor. Um, next we have Ann.
Ann, what is your question? Hi Dr. Seaff
Freed, thank you for taking my call. I'm
listening to you from Toronto. I was
diagnosed two years ago with stage 4
high cirrus ovarian cancer. Um, they did
a 10-hour surgery followed by five
months of
IVIP chemo. I was on a very strict keto
diet and my
CA-125 numbers have remained very low.
Um around 10, 11, 11, 12. Um and then
gradually the last 6 months, I've gone a
little bit more plant-based, introducing
more beans and more um grains. And
listening to you today, obviously, I
think you've answered my question. um
the uh GK um I will indicate whether um
I'm in ketosis or not anymore. I think
that was my question.
Yeah. Well, um, you know, just like what
when I showed with Pablo Kelly, uh, in
his managing of his glyopblasto,
um, you know, there is there is some,
um, slippage a little bit, but, uh, he
he has come into a new diet and
lifestyle that kind of maintains and I
think maintains the slow growth. Let's
put it that way. Again, he's not cured.
Um but he's and like yourself uh uh you
know at some point if if you can get
access to the other parts of the press
pulse um uh strategy uh you can you can
you can discuss this with your
oncologists if you if you now that you
have this information you can discuss
this uh and discuss options that may
help you maintain um uh a quality of
life and a management of the tumor. So I
think these you you have the you have
the what I gave you and now you can
discuss this to see if you can continue
to maintain uh very very slow if maybe
resolution of your tumor. I don't know
but um at least that's what you can do.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
All right. Thanks Ann for that. And now
next we have Tony. Tony what is your
question? Uh yes. uh last July I was
diagnosed with low-grade uh B cell
follicular which progressed to moderate
diffused large bell non nonhodkins
lymphoma and I've been on chop R for
four cycles I've got two more to go
obviously the predinazone and curious if
this metabolic theory also applies to
lymphas I see most of the most of the
lectures are about solid tumors
yeah lymphas are the same as the others
um they're bathed in glutamine because
they're in the blood. Um, and uh, when
you look into the scientific literature,
you'll see the the the mitochondria in
lymphas um, all all the different blood
cancers have defective respiratory
capacity there. Therefore, they're based
on fermentation just like the solid
tumors are. So, um, yeah, I I mean it's
remarkable when I looked into the
scientific literature and looked at the
mitochondria and all these cancers,
they're all defective and what that
means is they have to use glucose and
glutamine. So lymphas, non non-hodkins
lymphoma or even hodkins lymphoma uh
they they require glucose and glutamine.
So again that's the common problem. Uh
and if you look at your treatment chop I
mean chop will will is a cocktail of
toxic drugs that will break DNA you know
stop u replication. Uh yeah, you can get
effective treatment for that, but also
pulling the plug on the glucose and
glutamine can do it without toxicity. I
mean, you can manage cancer with toxic
really radical toxicity of course, but
at the same time, you put normal cells
of your body at risk um for damage from
radiation and chemo, which is not
healthy. Uh on the other hand, you can
manage the cancer by selectively ch
targeting glucose and glutamine using
press pulse metabolic therapy. But as
the questions I've said, most oncology
bring it up to your oncologist say can
you can you can I do press pulse
metabolic therapy and see what they say.
Um and then you'll you'll know the
answer to your to your question.
Thank you.
Right. Thanks Tony. Next we have Cheryl.
Cheryl, what is your question? Hi Dr.
Ciphered. Well um Tony just asked my
main question and I have a second
question. But first, I just want to
thank you so much for your work and your
commitment to finding the real truth. So
my question is if someone has a watery
cancer like specifically double hit
non-hodkins lymphoma and he's been doing
conventional standard of care treatment
for over a year, I think it's mainly uh
experimental chemo and he's survived so
far. Can he benefit by switching to the
metabolic therapy or does it ever become
too late?
Well, I don't I don't think anything for
the most part becomes too late. If the
patient is still cognitive and still
functional, um you can always uh
integrate metabolic therapy and and I
don't want to say that metabolic therapy
alone uh should be used. I mean there
are many people who do conventional
standards of care and they combine it
with um metabolic therapy uh because
because in general when you're into a
state of water fasting or ketosis the
normal cells of your body get healthier.
So you're always going to be uh helping
the normal cells do this and can reduce
uh some of the toxicities of these
powerful uh toxic chemicals. The work of
Longo um has shown that people who are
taking uh who are on water only fasting
do have much less toxic effects from the
standards of care. So so I always think
that that yeah you know it can be used
together with standards of care. um you
know whether it's better that way or is
it better by itself um you know we're
still working out the details but um
yeah I think it can be it could be done
with standards of care and you discuss
this with your oncologist and see what
they think. Thank you so much.
Okay, thank you Michelle for that. Next
we have Kaylee. Kaylee, what was your
question? Thank you please. Have studies
been done correlating the advent and
increase of the use of cell phones along
with the rise of the the
glyopblastomas? And is there also a
study being done or has been done of
where the tumors in the brain occur and
correlating that where the cell phones
are held to the head?
Yeah, that's a good question. Well, I
went to England a couple of years ago
where they were looking at um the kinds
of magnetic uh pulses that come out of a
cell phone. Um I think the risk is
probably more for young people uh young
kids where their skull is less thick. Um
and they really penetrate deep. the the
arguments were that you know cell phone
electromagnetic waves don't cause
mutations and therefore uh they would
say that they that that the cell phones
don't have any impact on brain cancer
but the whole thing mutations are
irrelevant anyway. So uh um what's
important is how how would
electromagnetic uh pulses potentially
initiate a tumor and what happens is
heat the heat from the cell phones can
actually cause inflammation in the micro
environment and it's inflammation in the
micro environment of the cells that
ultimately leads to mitochondrial damage
in the origin of cancer. The mutations
are largely irrelevant. So um the
question then should become is it
possible that cell phones could create
an abnormality in the in the micro
environment of the brain that could
elicit a brain tumor and the answer is
probably more likely in young people
than in older people um only because of
the as I said the skull thickness. So
the it's a important question uh and
considering how widely used the cell
phones are computers and a lot of
different kinds of things they probably
do represent a risk factor. It's very
hard to quantify uh that risk factor but
obviously
uh knowing you know 5G networks and all
these kinds of things and
electromagnetic radiation it's it's it's
probably a risk factor. It's been very
hard to specifically say that someone's
tumor was caused by cell phone use.
Usually, it's a combination of a number
of different things that would probably
elicit something like that. But we
certainly cannot rule out uh completely
that cell phone use is is innocuous and
has no relationship to the origin of
cancer. So, I I think there's a
possibility there, but I I don't do that
kind of research and I'll let I'll leave
that to others.
Thank you.
Okay, next we have Gretchen. Gretchen,
what is your question?
Thank you very much for your input. Um,
as you reject the standards of care for
cancer, and it would appear that you
respect and have done an extensive
amount of research and publishing, have
you
respectfully researched the cancer work
of Nishioi and macrobiotics, part of the
collection of the Smithsonian's National
Archives? uh macrobiotics deals a lot
with the alka acid alkaline balance for
one aspect and as far back as the 60s
had farreaching success in dealing with
cancer and other maladanies. I I've been
involved with the macrobiotic community
since 2003 and I have equated
macrobiotics to plant-based eating for
mena level thinkers.
Yeah. Well, I mean certainly um well, we
did some research on this. Actually, I'm
writing, in fact, I'm working on a big
paper right now for the
alkalinization thing. The the uh acid,
the acidity is caused by the
fermentation metabolism of the tumor
cells. So, that creates local lo local
inflammation and acidification of the
micro environment from the waste
products of the tumor cells, which
facilitates the the spread. Uh we try to
stop metastatic cancer by um uh u using
alkaline u materials uh what is it
sodium hydroxide one of these things we
couldn't get any therapeutic benefit
from it at all. Um the uh so the best
way to stop acidification is pull the
plug on the fermentation metabolism. If
you do that you're going to stop local
acidification. As I said, you know, you
can do a lot of different kinds of
things. If you know what's causing the
cancer to grow, then just pull the plug
on that and see what happens. If ma if
macrobiotics can do that, then do that.
You know, it's just uh you know, um
sodium boro, what is it? What is that?
Baking soda. We tried that to try to
alkaline. Didn't work at all. So, um it
didn't stop our metastatic cancer. Maybe
it'll stop somebody's. I don't know.
But, uh you know, we know what the
problem is. uh we know how to go after
the problem just people just have to
know that they can do it or not do it
you know it's whatever they want to do
well I my my real question was and I I
if you haven't uh researched uh the
workings of Nishioi on cancer I
respectfully suggest that you might be
fascinated by what you find
okay I'll I'll look into that thank you
thank you um hi I'm filling in for on
who had to step away on to do some
technical stuff. So my name is Nancy and
the next question is from Aaron. Aaron,
I'm going to un unmute you if you could
ask your question.
Hi. So as a followup to the answer you
gave Steve about what food should we eat
or how they affect our uh our uh sugar
intake and and and ketosis. So you you
suggested to use a device and check. So
my question would be how much time after
you eat a food you should test yourself
and see how does the the food affect
you? And my second question is uh uh
about what are your thoughts about
immunotherapy? Do you think that this is
also toxic uh treatment? Thank you.
Yeah. Well that's a good question. Um
you can try it. We we we we did these
experiments on on ourselves and
students. Um we gave Coca-Cola, right?
Uh and we tested red wine as well. Um so
uh you you the way we did this was we we
we had the the person or the student um
not eat anything for like 36 hours. So
you kind of burn up your glycogen in the
in the liver. You get kind of a nice uh
baseline. and then drink a CocaCola
um you know standard high carbo
carbohydrate Coke. So uh my associate
did this um and the the blood sugar uh
we measured the blood sugar just before
they drink the Coca-Cola and it was
about 89 milligrams per deciliter. Okay,
which is which is good. You know, it's
what a normal normal in the normal
range. And then we she drank the
Coca-Cola and we waited 15 minutes and
we measured the blood sugar again and it
was 165 milligrams per deciliter in 15
minutes. Now, of course, insulin surge
will will gradually reduce the sugar.
Um, but it takes in Coca-Cola. And then
one of my other students uh went on a
three-day water only fast and then drank
a a a glass of of red wine, Cabernet. um
um uh you know low low a thick red wine
I guess you could say and the blood
sugar didn't change at all. It it it was
shown that the Cabernet did not raise
the blood sugar in striking comparison
to Coca-Cola. So, you know, these kinds
of experiments everyone should or people
can do on their on their own. Like the
answer to your question, you can get the
answer to your question by measuring
your GKI uh certain periods of time
after you eat certain things. And that's
what I said. So, eat a banana and see
how high it goes. Uh versus taking in
grapefruit. Uh all of these things can
be done. You have to measure before get
the get the number and then and then
after uh a certain period of time after
you know you can do it at 15 minutes an
hour and you can see your
blood
gradually gradually declines that means
your insulin is working. If the blood
sugar stays up and it doesn't go down
you got an insulin problem. So uh uh
insulin insensitivity this is what
underlies type two diabetes and a lot of
type two diabetics are at high risk for
cancer because they can't clear the
glucose out of their system after they
eat this thing. So a lot of these things
can be done by the individual
themselves. What was the other part of
your question about imu immunotherapy?
Oh yeah this is something that you know
been offer lately and what are your
thought about this type of treatment?
Yeah well it's very expensive. um it has
the probability of giving you some
therapeutic advantage like that paper I
just showed at the beginning of the
lecture on the non small cell cancer um
but it also can accelerate how fast you
the tumor can grow. So it's a mixed bag.
It's not really clear. Some people do
really well in an imunotherapy and uh
it's funny an interesting paper came out
not not long ago and they call lactic
acid um a checkpoint inhibitor block.
Lactic acid blocks the they think will
block the effects of imunotherapy. Well,
the lactic acid is coming from the the
the tumor's use of glucose dumping out
the lactic acid. So again,
imunotherapies will probably work a lot
better if the patient is in nutritional
ketosis. I mean, this is it becomes very
very clear. As a matter of fact, I think
all of these cancer treatments will work
much better if the patient is in
nutritional ketosis before they take the
therapy. So um and that's becoming more
there's number of papers coming out
saying that imunotherapies can work
better if the patient is in nutritional
ketosis. Then the question becomes if
you do nutritional ketosis with press
pulse why you taking imotherapy in the
first place it doesn't make any sense.
So and it's also imotherapies are based
on the sematic mutation theory of the
disease. So if cancer is not a genetic
disease why are you using imotherapies
in the first place? But you know they do
it because they they don't understand
the rest of the biology of the disease.
So um but you know it's going to be a
transition uh period before the field
comes to realize what how how the best
way to manage this disease is. Thank you
so much doctor.
Thank thank you very much Aaron. Okay so
the next person up is uh uh Dborah. I'm
going to unmute you if you could ask
your question please.
Hi um thank you for taking me again. I
just I have like two things to ask. One
was um we've talked a lot about treating
cancer and these all these kind of
programs and thoughts and ketosis and
different treatments for cancer. Are
there any things at this point that you
recommend along these lines where you've
studied that helps those of us without
cancer um to beat the odds of you know
our doctors who told us you're going to
get it anyh how just no matter which one
because it's genetic. um just how to be
more preventative. I know, ridiculous.
And then other thing I just wanted to
ask quick only because I was exposed to
it in um in South Africa was the use of
ozone
treatment. Um and what your thoughts
were about ozone, if it's just hocus
pocus or if it's actually something
that's beneficial in because it was pre
it was in a preventative nature, you
know, at a health spa thing. So those
are my questions. Thank you. Yeah. Um
well the ozone uh part of this is we
tried that and there are some examples I
think in the literature not many
publications on that uh it didn't work
for us in the in the in the pre-clinical
in the pre-clinical system um u but so I
I mean to focus I I was thinking more
about the the ozone because we did try
that um we we didn't publish it because
we we had a couple of students that were
doing at uh you
know and we were looking at and this
kind of thing. I'm not going to say that
ozone doesn't doesn't help. Um it's just
that it's not as profound as what we see
when we target the glucose and glutamine
and what was the first part of your
question again? I just as I said I was
doing those Oh yeah, prevention. Yes,
prevention.
Yeah. Uh prevention. Okay. Well, that's
a different uh Okay. So if if here's the
situation. If the origin of cancer is
the result of damage to the oxidative
phosphorilation system in a cell in a
particular organ, that's the origin of
cancer. So it's hard to get cancer if
your mitochondria remain healthy. Okay?
So as long as you have a diet and
lifestyle that reduce inflammation and
maintain the health and vitality of your
mitochondria, the probability of getting
cancer is very rare. Uh primitive tribe
like the great uh humanitarian physician
Albert Schwitzer uh which studied
primitive peoples in different
continents and cancer was very very rare
in humans that uh were in a diet
lifestyle similar similar to that that
we evolved in. uh Eskimos uh Inuits of
of of the cold climates uh had no term
for cancer. Um and they're eating, you
know, blubber and fat in that in their
environment. As long as you have a diet
and lifestyle that does not cause
systemic inflammation, uh the
probability of getting cancer is very
rare. So why why is our societies
throughout the world where cancer now is
overtaking heart disease uh uh why we
have this problem? It's
99% of it is diet and lifestyle. We did
not evolve to eat jellyfilled donuts,
pizza, coke. This was not part of our
existence. This all started with the
Neolithic period. Once we started using
grains, grains that have a lot of
energies. Yes, that help. We got bigger
as a people. we got I mean um and uh but
but it also uh highly processed
carbohydrate foods over the last 35 or
40 years are putting us at enormous risk
for cancer. Um, until people come to
understand this, we're we're we're not
going to be able to prevent the disease.